
<br>

``` r
print("Hello, PAM 2070 Students!")
```

    ## [1] "Hello, PAM 2070 Students!"

# Welcome to PAM 2070: Big Data for Big Policy Problems\!

This repository is intended as a guide to the lab materials for PAM
2070. To be able to access the lab materials, you *must* become a member
of our GitHub Organization. This requires you to:

  - First, create a GitHub account if you do not already have one
    (whether through your Cornell NetID or just with a personal email)
  - Next, send your GitHub username to Chris Hess [email
    link](mailto:\\clh285@cornell.edu).
  - Finally, accept the GitHub organization invite sent to the email
    associated with your GitHub account.

As we progress through the course, we will make additional lab
repositories available to students on this GitHub organization page. Lab
1 will be available to you as soon as you are a part of the
big-data-big-problems organization. These repositories contain the data,
a notebook of important programming and statistics concepts (which build
week by week) and a problem set. Corresponding videos for the notebooks
will be published on Canvas and give additional information and
guidance.

# How we will use Git/GitHub

Git is a system for *version control*, that is, managing a set of
important scripts or documents over time. This allows us to build
*repositories* of code, data and outputs that we can share on GitHub
after we make changes on our local machines and commit the changes to a
master version that we (the teaching team) can work together on. Git and
GitHub are fantastic tools for collaboration\!

You will use GitHub to download the lab repositories as they become
available—students are encouraged to install and use Git on their local
machine to interact with these remote GitHub lab repositories, but this
is not mandatory. You can always download any repository as a compressed
(.zip) folder. If you wish to learn Git for version control, start by
[installing Git](https://git-scm.com/) on your local machine. Then,
consider reading through the free book
[HappyGitwithR](https://happygitwithr.com/) by Jenny Bryan of RStudio.

It helps to be hands-on with learning Git:

  - make a test repository on your GitHub,
  - clone it to your computer
  - add a text file or sample R script (e.g., `print("hello world")`)
  - open git (either command line or the graphical user interface) and
    navigate to your repository
  - `git add` the new file to start tracking it
  - `git commit` the changes you have made to the repository
  - `git push` the commit from your local version of the repository to
    the `master` version located remotely on GitHub.

Git and GitHub are a great tools for social science—you can keep your
work organized, share it with collaborators and create public facing
websites for free with GitHub pages. A project to develop your Git
skills with is to fork and create a personal website using
[Jekyll](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll) and a repository like
[Gitfolio](https://github.com/imfunniee/gitfolio).
